---
published: true
---
## Improving while failing

Failure is something that is not possible to completely avoid, if it happens, is the consequence of many things, that is why it is important to deeply understand why happened. Analyzing your failure is a great opportunity to improve yourself and to avoid failures happening again (at least the way it happened). To overcome your failure, you must change your approach. You must examine your failure, determine what went wrong, and then determine what changes you must do to succeed the next time. Your failure teaches you that the only way to overcome failure is to accept change in this way.  
The main learning I got from these previous weeks is that when you are developing a project, you should have a full understanding of what is going to be developed. It is pretty common to assume that you will figure out the things you do not completely understand on the way, the bad thing with this, is that the calculation of your timing when working is going to be inaccurate increasing the risk of not completing the task before the due date.  
This last-mentioned applies when working with others, mainly when working with a client. Does not matter how sure you feel about the idea you have, it is necessary to validate everything with the customer, at the end of the day, the project is being developed is theirs. It is crucial to not assume that the client's perspective is understood it has not been validated.  
Failure might occur not because you did not put out your best effort, but because you followed the incorrect concept. When things are going well, you may become too optimistic and want to act on every idea that comes to mind.  
Failure serves as a reminder that not every idea that comes to mind is a good one. Failure teaches you to sift through your ideas, evaluate them carefully, and only act on the ones that appear to be the most promising.