---
published: true
---
## Getting used to different environments

During this week I felt more confident with the way I communicate with others. Since this is the open-source phase, I had to communicate with developers I have never talked to or had something in common, that is why being explicit and bringing proper context about the way I want to collaborate or doubts about a project are crucial. This last thing mentioned does not mean that communication was the same in all cases, every open source project I got interested in had different "rules" or "workflows" on the way they communicate between the collaborators.  
Some open-source projects have their external channels and chat to actively communicate with others, others have very bad communication, and others even welcome you when they see you are interested in participating in a project.  
The learning from the experience in getting into these projects is that you have to adapt to the way and guidelines of collaborating any project has, and they vary a lot. One of the main concerns I had during these months when learning new stacks was that I was not comfortable at all with the developments I did during this time, because I had no reference of how big real projects are built in the stacks I was learning.   

This phase has been a great opportunity to see a variety of projects, and how big things a build to learn about their architecture. Of course, it is important to know well the basics of good practices to identify if it is worth learning about a specific project, in order of avoiding learning from bad practices.  

During this week I had the great opportunity of getting into web-scraping which is a topic I have been always interested in. Thanks to one of my mentors, I got a great introduction to selenium which is a framework for testing automation, but its usage has evolved into having different usages such as web-scraping. Additionally, I used this week to review some oop concepts and terminologies to keep a total understanding of these.Finally as part of the requirements of the phase, I had to do some reasearch where I have learn how DBMS makes execution plans and how the garbage collector works internally in dotnet.  