---
published: true
---
## Innovation & hard/smart work

This essay contains a compilation of the different learnings I had from the videos and readings from the assignments of week number 1. In each section, I provide personal opinions, comments, and a summary of my understanding from the provided material.

### Peak: How to Master Anything By Anders Ericsson
The main point of the video about the summary of the book has is about the great importance of practice, it also mentions other important elements to master activities such as opportunity, mindset, and right motive.
Practicing will not improve your performance by itself. You won't enhance your tee strokes by hitting 100 balls at the driving range twice a week. You will not become a violin master by playing the violin for two hours every day. Repetition is a crucial learning method, although it is overstated. While devoted practice time will result in some initial increase in your performance, you will not go beyond 'good enough' until you change your attitude and continually adapt your practice activities based on performance feedback.  
Continuous practice needs a great level of focus in order to repeatedly perform the new method until it becomes a habit. This brings us to our second pearl: the significance of focusing on quality rather than quantity.

### Making Badass Developers By Kathy Sierra
In order of developing yourself as a developer, one of the first questions you should make is how can you learn and build skills quickly, instead of what do you need to know to become a developer.
It does not matter how many people you ask, you will always receive a different answer when asking what you need to be a developer, and that is because there is no answer for that.  
Cognitive resources are the key to actually learning really quickly and really well, and that is something that as humans we have very limited. Educational programs and businesses use to treat people like humanoids that are capable of being constantly learning with unlimited cognitive resources.
One of the best things you can do when learning something to avoid burning up your cognitive resources is to split things into small subtasks and instantly you become more effective and efficient.

### Ideas are just a multiplier of execution By Derek Sivers
The most significant fact I understood by reading this is that ideas are basically meaningless without implementation; execution is what matters and pushes the needle. Every day of the year, I witness this in my own life. This paradigm stays true the more you zoom in time out.  
The business multiplier formula that I found pretty optimistic to be truth, also demonstrates that you don't need a huge market or amazing execution to thrive; if you satisfy a significant demand with a great concept and a fantastic execution, you can establish a $2 million firm in a tiny market. Of course, this reading makes it looks pretty simple which I think is too much to how the implementation, in reality, behaves, nevertheless, I completely agree with the importance of this reading gives to implementation. In my personal experience, I have seen how many good ideas had no results because of the way those ideas were implemented.

### How to Talk to Anyone by Leil Lowndes
One thing I found very useful about this reading, is that it brings many different tips about how to communicate properly in many different cases,  and those cases are those that use to happen pretty frequently when communicating and the difference between behaving properly or not can impact significantly in your professional and personal life.    
When meeting new individuals, the first 10 seconds are often the most stressful. That's usually the only portion of the process when we break a sweat. How To Talk To Anyone is a highly practical book that focuses on little tips that you can implement right now. It's essential not to get carried away with books like this since you'll end up drowning in methods you'll never use, but the occasional experiment may be quite beneficial.

## Course overview + the shell  
This one helped me to review the most important commands to use in the shell and mainly to see the differences when using different operative systems.  Additionally, one user, in particular, is exceptional on most Unix-like systems: the "root" user. It was perhaps listed in the file listings above. The root user has virtually complete access to the system and can create, read, update, and delete any file. However, you will rarely enter into your system as the root user since it is just too simple to damage things. Instead, the sudo command will be used. Another thing I learned is that when the shell has to read data, it uses the input stream, and when it needs to print anything, it uses the output stream.

### Creative thinking hacks By Scott Berkun
In this video, I felt identified with some ideas Scott Berkun said about creativity, there is a lot of hype and romanticism in it, sometimes we use to think we are not as creative as we should be, but in reality, creativity is not a thing that just comes from nowhere, it requires discipline and work.
Begin to notice your own creative cycles and build your creative activities around them. You can't be an effective creator until you pay attention to your own behavior and understand how to best develop the distinctive and unique brilliance that is you.  
It's simple to be creative for the sake of being creative. However, if you want to be creative on demand, you must create helpful habits, which require perseverance. It's not always easy to come up with creative solutions to problems, and acknowledging and working through anxieties is rarely enjoyable. All creative labor eventually devolves into work. When you look at the lives of great artists, you'll see that they all have a core of determination and dedication as their driving force.   
The best creative hack Scott talked about in his video is just not giving up, no matter how romantic or apparent it may seem. Playing with ideas is one thing; putting them into action is quite another. When an idea is completely formed in your head, there's no escaping the truth that it must leave your brain to alter the world, a trip that can only be accomplished by ordinary, routine, everyday hard effort.

### What are the most profound life lessons from Standford Professor John Ousterhout? 
A thing I found very interesting and useful about this reading is the fact that is a compilation of the synthesized thoughts from students where they explain (As the title says) the most profound lessons they have learned from Professor Ousterhout that are relevant to people that want to develop themselves in the IT field.
One of the first facts that are explained which I had thought about is that as programmers, we are trained to focus on the speed of our algorithms; yet, today's computers are so fast that having highly sophisticated algorithms is no longer necessary.  
The ultimate test for a budding software developer/engineer is completing programs on time and to a high standard. Simplicity is the most important criterion for software.
"Faster" algorithms contain bigger constants, making them slower on a smaller scale, but they should be utilized when dealing with huge amounts of data.
When it comes to software, it's usually for a developer to settle for a solution that hasn't been tested in his rush to complete when trying to cure a hard-to-reproduce issue. It is critical to test a solution. It is critical to trace an issue in the code down to its atomic parts in order to address it.

### How Progress Really Happens By Scott Berkun  
In this video, Berkun points out that the acts necessary to bring about change begin with one person:
Even grassroots transformation is dependent on an individual's decision to utilize their influence to effect change.
We believe that change can only happen when someone in a position of authority orders it. Some of the things that I have learned from Brekun from this talk are that: You must provide possibilities for others to flourish beneath you if you want innovation to happen.  
If you are constantly stifling ideas that do not match your viewpoint, you will only receive your own worldview. As a manager, you're getting further and further away from the front lines, where all the new stuff happens!  

### X Workflow  
I found this document as a brief summary of the different phases that should be followed and the tools that should be used in order to successfully accomplishing a process. I also found different useful tips to avoid common errors and focus on optimization by using different methodologies. This reading also discusses a process in which we live while working or attempting to comprehend the environment (including our work). We typically follow some kind of this, whether we are conscious of it or not, but in a disorganized manner, which leads to errors and issues. 

### Autopilot Britain  
This reading talks about the way we use to make many decisions during the day unconsciously, and how this behavior could affect our lives. We are stopped from connecting with what matters in life if we sleepwalk into our decisions. The autopilot response might prevent us from truly engaging with others. It's easy to believe that risk aversion and the route of least resistance are the forces that keep us on autopilot. Experts, on the other hand, have done some research identifying certain underlying cultural factors that are causing the autopilot to become more common nowadays.
We get immersed in our own identities and habits. Feeling more connected in your larger community and a part of something greater is one way to live a more purposeful existence. We can play a more fulfilling role in our neighborhood if we can take a moment to observe what is right on our doorstep, things that we frequently ignore.
One recommendation this reading gives to avoid falling into autopilot is to spend more time outside simply being outside and appreciating nature and our surroundings. Instead of meeting up with pals in a cafe, go for a stroll and carry some coffee and snacks. 
