---
published: true
---
## Learning From Everything

There were many learnings from different areas I got during this week. Many of them were technical since I have been working on a stack of technology I have not worked on before, and others were about customer approach, being prepared for different kinds of situations, and teamwork.  

During this week, there were many different obstacles during the development of the project we have been developing during the Building Something From Scratch phase. Nevertheless, the way the team dealt with these was in a way everybody learned from it. People were working in the front-end were more involved with the back-end processes and so on. This allowed us as a team being aware of everything was happening during the developing of the project, which provided us full context and allowed us to work in a better way.  

During the week, I discovered new things about nodeJS and reactJS. From node I learned that We should design modular applications by dividing the entire software into modular components as a node.js best practice. We won't have to share code with anyone else this way (e.g. APIs, services, data access, test cases, etc.) This simplifies the procedure. As a result, it's really simple to reason about it.  

It is not a good practice to define the full express application process in large files. Instead, we should break the 'Express' definition into at least two separate files. One is for the API declaration (app.js) and the other is for network issues. Our API declarations can also be found in numerous components.  

From react I have learned that component reusability can be improved by sticking to the rule of one function = one component. This indicates that if a component for a function already exists, you should not try to create a new component for that function.  

Not only will you get consistency by reusing components throughout your project or a lot of projects, but you'll also be contributing to the community.  

From the material, we were provided for this phase the most significant for me was the video from Nassim Nicholas Taleb that is about The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable book. The concept of the black swan is something that I have thought about, but with the video, this idea became clear and complete and I have learned that that concept applies in all fields not only in technology 
