---
published: true
---
## Polyglot Programming 

This week, in comparison to the previous weeks of the program, became a little more technical; it was time to put the previous week's lessons into practice, to begin new healthy habits, to learn and work more effectively, and to collaborate with other apprentices, which was one of the highlights of the week for me.
Various topics were assigned for content during this week; these topics mainly focused on how to behave with others in a work environment (focused on IT areas), and how different technologies follow the same methodologies, making the differences between programming languages almost irrelevant when attempting to find the best programming language.  

### Google I/O 2009 - The Myth of the Genius Programmer  
At the begging of the talk, it is mentioned how people have the necessity of showing themselves as clever in front of others. When people are in the progress of something they do not feel secure at all they prefer to not mention, to not ask questions because of the fear of looking unsure, vulnerable. Is like someone is looking for an address driving around to find the place without asking questions.  
One thing some people use to worry about is criticism and programmers use to be very intense on this. More than an IT problem it is a cultural problem, people do not expect failure as a part of a process of development, all people have failures, but are not opened to show those failures people use to have.
When something did not happen as expected the point is not to assign blame.
It's to look at what you did, have everyone else look at what happened so that we don't do this again.
Some people learn by sitting in a room with two other guys and listening to them yammer on incessantly. Reading a book is one way for some people to learn. Others like to learn by looking at pictures. Some people learn via trial and error.
If you're still working on a mock-up, you don't need to be in a cave to do so, do you? Even if you're working on an Open Source repository, most people aren't going to know you're working on that mock-up. They won't notice you until you start yelling and sending out mailing lists and saying, "Hey, come look at what I'm doing.".
The key learnings and recommendations this video gives are the following: 
- Don't try to be a genius
- Collaborate early and often 
- Pay attention to your tools 
- Pay attention to timing
- There is no genius
- Lose the ego 
- Criticism is not evil 
- Embrace failure 
- Iterate Quickly Be a small fish 
- Be influenced 
- Be vulnerable 
- Use tools 
- Involve collaborators early


### Perfmatters: Tooling techniques for the performance ninja - Chrome Dev Summit 2013 (Colt McAnlis)
Back then some years ago, developers didn't have the tools to measure anything in a mobile web, but nowadays, thanks to some extensions and devtools we actually have the ability to debug like on desktop, in that way we can measure performance characteristics, but according to McAnlis, that is not enough because there is a performance tuning loop that has the following phases.
Gather: This is all about getting all the necessary information in order of getting an insight into what problem is affecting the performance is.
Insight: It is the analysis realized taking into consideration all the information gathered. This phase is the one that identifies the problem that is happening.
Action: When developers start planning a deploying a solution base on the insight they have.
McAnlis refer to this process as a loop because once you start doing it, there is always something else to do, also mentions that it is common to identify problems they had no idea about.
There are three different pillars of web development that affect how a web page behaves. These are Network, Rendering, and computing. Summarizing up, the "Hit List" of the things we should do in the pillars is to optimize the critical path on the network, reduce paints in the rendering, and reduce JS execution time on computing.  

### Variable Lenght Codes By Colt McAnlis (Compressor Head Ep 1)
There are different compression algorithms out there that can be applied to a data stream and different variable-length codes to actually get into entropy.
Nowadays we enjoy the velocity and accessibility that digital multimedia offers, this is possible by the way media is digitalized and compressed. One important concept is mentioned is entropy which is an estimate of the least amount of bits that each symbol must have on average to represent the stream. 
There are hundreds of codes with various lengths available.
There are Schalkwijk codes, Phased-In codes, Punctured codes, Stout codes, Fibonacci codes, and a lot more to select from. You could also do something a little different and build your VLCs directly depending on your chance. It's easy to understand how a small amount of compression can go a long way. You may also utilize variable length codes to reduce your data collection in something as basic as statistical encoding.  

### The LZ77 Compression Family (Compressor Head Ep 2)
Nowadays there are is a compression family that has been being used for the last 30 years. Abraham Lempel and Jacob Ziv created a way for determining the best approach to tokenize a stream. The original two transforms, known as LZ77 and LZ78, are so effective at discovering optimum tokenization that no other method has come close to replacing them.
A different concept of Entropy is given at the beginning of this video, this time by Claude Shannon, and it is defined as the minimal number of bits required per symbol to describe your data stream. Something interesting Scott said is that when you multiply the entropy of a stream by its length, you obtain the lowest size that the stream can be compressed to according to information theory. However, there's a reason it's referred to be information theory rather than law. We have the option to break the rules.  

### Markov Chain Compression (Ep 3, Compressor Head)
Compression and how it may make content more accessible to consumers is a big aspect for developers to consider as they design future products.
In this episode, Scott talks about the Markov Chain Compression which is one of the most used and most advanced algorithms for compression, he refers to it as a "cutting edge algorithm".
Something I have learned from this video is the importance of having a full context of the whole data that is going to be compressed, by this, it is possible to apply probability in order of defining how the algorithm is going to behave to compress the data optimally to reduce it as much as possible. Another thing is the importance of escape code that in a probability table, an escape code is a specific symbol that tells the decoder when to read a whole literal from our literal stream.  

### Google I/O 2012 - The Art of Organizational Manipulation
Being a successful software engineer involves more than simply understanding the latest technologies and writing good code. It also involves learning how to interact with others and navigate business politics. It's equally essential. And, for the most part, it's something that can only be acquired by experience. This is one of the main learnings this video gives.
The ideal progression at work in an ideal company is to pursue responsibility getting passionated by the work you are doing, by this, the employee ends increasing the workload because is getting involved with the work is doing, and that is beneficial for everyone.
In ideal companies, they treat their employees as the adults they are, what really matters is how the end product is, and not how much time they spend sitting in the company.
One fact that shocked me and now I agree with is that 50% percent of the happiness of your job comes from how you work with your manager. I agree with this statistic because the way you work with others is what creates the environment at work.  

### Google I/O 2011: Programming Well with Others: Social Skills for Geeks
It does not matter how well you work by yourself, what really defines how productive you are is how you behave with others in your team. This video mostly talks about teamwork, its mission statement is to help the team to get focus and out the team somewhere which is only possible by having good communication with the different members that are involved.
It is important to keep a good culture where you positively influence and get influenced by others.
The main advices this talks gives are the following:
Communicate your ideas
Motivate your team by giving them the tools they need
Learn how to talk with no techies
Design -> Prototype -> Collaborate
Everyone perspective matters  

### Developing Expertise: Herding Racehorses, Racing Sheep
Dave Thomas discusses how to increase people's competence in their areas of interest by treating them differently than if they all had the same amount of knowledge and experience.
According to Thomas, the path of competence is divided into several phases or categories, such as novice, advanced beginning, competent, proficient, and expert, in that sequence.
The novice has short-term objectives, whereas the experienced beginner can accomplish more but still need assistance. Then there are the competent who do tasks on their own, the proficient who truly comprehend the context of everything and implement solutions, and the specialists for whom facts are no longer sufficient.  

### Perfection Is An Unrealistic Goal
In this video, we try to look at agility from a new angle, namely, how humans are wired to work and sleep, which is quite similar to iterations. 
As humans, we have different phases throughout the day where we have enough energy to do and work on our plans, but we also have moments when our energy and motivation are low, which could be due to a variety of factors beyond our control, and our work should be done in cycles, cycles that we understand how to work in us. Take pauses, work in cycles, don't lie to yourself, travel to strange places, and most importantly, you will never do it exactly but it will be good enough, according to this video's advice and lessons.  

### The Power of an Agile Mindset
We are all works in progress, according to the agile attitude.
The agile software development method isn't a one-size-fits-all approach. As we learn more about it, it continues to evolve and expand. If we're lucky, this won't end since nothing is ever perfect. As we get older, we will continue to improve.
An agile mindset takes all the opportunities of learning from success and failure, is about challenging yourself to do new things. This video says that you can improve, learn and grow all the time. When you are working you are always improving in some way.  

### Who do You Trust? Beware of Your Brain
According to cognitive psychologists, we are more productive and happy when our behavior corresponds to our brain's hardwiring—when what we do and why we do it corresponds to how we have evolved to live for tens of thousands of years. One troublesome human trait is that we are programmed to make snap decisions about who we may trust.
Something surprising is mentioned, although it is unrelated to the primary topic: we automatically categorize people by sorting them into in-groups and out-groups. Managers classify people into winners and losers as early as three weeks, according to research.
Managers do this kind of labeling long before they see any evidence of performance; they've already decided who are the good guys and who aren't going to make it, and as soon as they put that label on you, as soon as they put that collar around your neck, that's exactly who you'll become, and that sets the expectation.
That is why, in order to avoid being persuaded that the labels we have received define us, it is vital to maintain a strong mental state.  

### Linda Rising on Collaboration, Bonobos and The Brain
The highlight I got from this reading is that Bonobos have developed a ritual for resolving conflicts, cooperating, and sharing scarce resources. We discovered several rituals or activities that connect us to our inner bonobo in the Agile community. They aren't even close to becoming a part of the chimp culture. We're looking for small groups that communicate and collaborate well; the bonobo society, for example, symbolizes an attempt for a community to interact with one another; it's not just the alpha male who mates, but everyone mates with everyone.  

### Missing semester: Shell tools and scripting
These are the main scripts and tools to remember about this reading.
Strings in bash can be defined with ' and " delimiters, but they are not equivalent. Strings delimited with ' are literal strings and will not substitute variable values whereas " delimited strings will.
As with most programming languages, bash supports control flow techniques including if, case, while and for. Similarly, bash has functions that take arguments and can operate with them. Here is an example of a function that creates a directory and cds into it.
- $0 - Name of the script
- $1 to $9 - Arguments to the script. $1 is the first argument and so on.
- $@ - All the arguments
- $# - Number of arguments
- $? - Return code of the previous command
- $$ - Process identification number (PID) for the current script
- !! - Entire last command, including arguments. A common pattern is to execute a command only for it to fail due to missing permissions; you can quickly re-execute the command with sudo by doing sudo !!
- $_ - Last argument from the last command. If you are in an interactive shell, you can also quickly get this value by typing Esc followed by.

### Everything is a remix 
Sometimes, when we see something awesome we may think it is original and unique, but the truth is that everything is created over other things, as these videos explain, everything is a remix.
Hip-hop is an excellent example of the main statement of these videos, this culture was very polemic in its origin because of sampling usage, but the truth is that even though Hip-Hop music is based on sounds from other songs, the end product is different from how it originally was.
