---
published: false
---
## SEO and Open Source Communities

This week, I looked at a variety of open-source projects in various stacks and spoke with other open-source developers. Since I've been installing various environments in various stacks, I've become more comfortable with them and more agile while working with them. Furthermore, I have put the many git commands we were taught in the missing semester material to use because I had some very specific problems that these commands helped me solve.  

It was interesting to see the different rules any project has. Some projects are very strict with the way you have to describe the things you have done in a pull request and the way you refer to issues and part of the code, they even give a format you have to follow and have some bots that verify if you accomplish the established guidelines on the descriptions you are giving. On the other hand, there are other projects in which they are not that strict, but they have better communication. I have seen that it all depends on the project size you are trying to contribute to.  

I had the opportunity to go deep into something I was interested long time ago: Search Engine Optimization and Open Graph Protocol. Since I have always been interested in marketing, these are things any web developer who cares about the visibility of a web page really should care about. To my surprise, I found that there is a specific kind of developer that works with these, usually in big companies that need to improve their visibility and to appear their competence on the web worldwide.  

I learned about the robot meta tags that using an HTML tag, extra values or arguments The robots meta tag tells search engines if you want them to crawl or index certain areas of your site.  
You can put them in the content attribute separately or simultaneously (separated by a comma).  
By default, search bots and web crawlers index all of the pages and links you generate on your website.  

The large variance in the community depending on the programming language or framework is something that surprised me. Since I'm interested in Dotnet, finding recent open-source projects has been challenging, and the community isn't as welcoming as it is in other languages. I knew there were cultural differences, but now that I've seen them, I realize how significant they are.
