---
layout: post
title: Learnings From The First Week
published: true
---
## Week 1: Understanding the workflow

In this essay, I explain the different things I have learned during the first week of the Ecora Academy, besides mentioning the different topics that were cover during the week, I explain the most significant stuff that I learned and how those learnings impact the way I work and my habits.
This was the week when everything started. I was excited as the rest of the apprentices as well. I was very curious about what this program was going to cover and excited in meeting the rest of the apprentices and staff members. In the beginning, everything was just expectations, then, after having some sessions, talks, reading some content, networking with some Encorias and other apprentices, I got convinced that this program is worthy, and I still am.
During the first days of the week, I was mainly interested in how Encorians communicate inside the company, since Encora is a large company I was very curious about how they manage and control their communication and what good practices they have when communicating. For my fortune, besides learning what tools they use and how to use them, we received a talk about communication in which helped me to figure out and identify problems that I have seen before, and how to avoid these problems when working and communicating on our daily basis.
As a new apprentice, I had many questions about everything at the beginning, mainly about how things work at Encora and where to find information, but then we received a session where The Hub was introduced to us. I was excited by the fact that there was a site where you can literally browse through a "big forum" of updated and validated data of different departments or areas of the company where you have a large set of topics to learn from. After taking a look into The Hub, many questions I had were solved.
The sessions we received from the IT Jedis brought very useful information which made me be more aware of how companies receive attacks directly through employees. Since I used to work in a place most communication used to be in person, and communication inside the company was almost only allowed from the local network, I was not too exposed to phishing as it would be in a place mail is used to many different things, and that talk made me be more aware of that.
How to communicate properly when working remotely is an important thing I have learned from the readings we were given and the sessions we had where this topic was taken. Since everybody is working remotely it was easy to try the different tips we were given through the lessons and readings such as the Not Hello Article which in a simple way helps us to optimize the process of asking someone for information.
Through the training from knowbe4 I learned about security awareness fundamentals, prevention of sexual harassment, and principally about Ethics and code of conduct where I learned about what to do when you have to choose about what is right and what is not, and how to avoid being involved in interest conflicts.
I discovered the material we have access to, the Slack channels you can ask for information and find people for different purposes, the different platforms the Encorians use among others.
In conclusion, I have found the first week very productive because I have found the content we were given was very valuable and interesting, and it was possible for me to get used to the program very easily despite I was busy with external stuff.
I learned from the different lectures we were given about habits, I consider that the information from those lectures is helpful if you want to be constantly growing in your personal and professional life. There were some important points for me such as the importance of implementing these new good habits step by step and once having a well-defined scope of what we want to do, to divide into different phases the things we need to do in order to reach our objectives. The way I understood these topics about habits, is that we need to keep self-motivation by looking to the small progress we have when completing our big our small tasks, to see the long term objectives like a set of steps to do.
